In the last lecture, we implemented the cache, the network strategy,
the second part of it where we put everything we get back from a network request onto our cache, hence
our cache is filled with stuff here
as you can tell
but still if I go offline, we fail.
Do you know why?
Have a look at the service worker. Well we never have any code where we try to fetch something from the
cache.
Now that's exactly what our cache, the network strategy is about,
it's really good for use cases where we do have Internet access and we want to get something on the
screen quickly because we fetch it from the cache first.
It's bad for cases where we don't have internet access though because we never try to fetch it only
from the cache,
so that is why offline doesn't work
whilst online does work and if we do fetch it from online, here in our application we can't even see
the advantage because everything loads so fast anyways but it is a real improvement for applications
where you work with real servers and may have some delay.
Still, I also want to provide some offline functionality, so we should mix the cache and the network approach
here with our old approach where we also check if something is in the cache already.
This on the other hand breaks our cache
then network strategy because if we have a look at the cache and return something from there if it's in
there, even if we then make the network request, we override updated data with outdated data,
so we not really get the result we want to get in this case.
So what we need to do here is we need to ensure that our app shell, the core files we need and also the
file which kicks off our cache then network strategy, which is the feed.js file, that these files
are loaded first so that we always load these when offline
otherwise our other strategy can't work,
now we can easily implement such a strategy. In the fetch listener here, we simply have to check which
kind of request we're making,
what we're requesting and we could say that we only want to use this strategy where we just store something
in the cache and don't look up if it's there,
so the counterpart for our cache then network strategy, that we only want to use that for the URL where
we also have the code in a normal Javascript.
Keep in mind, we're only using the cache then network strategy on this URL,
we kick it off here in the feed.js file,
so this is the only URL where we should use the service worker counterpart.
So what we can do is we can store that URL here too, that was a little bit too much code
I copied, just want to grab that URL here.
So store it here too and with it stored here,
keep in mind you can of course write code before respond with,
this just means that's the final thing I want to respond with.
So with that URL stored here,
I can check if the event request URL contains that URL.
Actually here, it should be equal but with indexOf URL,
I can really be sure that the URL I'm sending the request to contains this string,
this is a simple way of parsing the URL. If that is greater than minus one, it means we have
found an entry of this string in this string,
so in the URL which also is a string we're sending the request to.
So if it's greater than minus one, we know we hit something,
we found it,
so in this case, we want to respond with that strategy. In the other case though, we're not having a
cache then network strategy,
we want to use our old strategy then, nothing easier than that.
Let's copy our caches match code from down there, from our old strategy and let's implement it here.
If we now comment this in here and important, wrap it in event respond with otherwise we're, well not responding
with that.
So wrap all that code, put it in
respond with here,
so once we did this, we're actually checking that we only use the cache then network counterpart for
that URL where we also have the other code in the feed.js file
and for all other URLs which don't use the cache then network strategy, we're using our old cache with
network fallback strategy,
so where we always try to find it in the cache first, return it if we do find it and only reach out
to the network if we don't find it. With that if we save this, we of course need to reload the app to install
the new service worker and once installation is finished, we can close that and open a new tab to activate
it
and now we can already see in the network tab if I reload this page, that a lot of stuff is fetched from
the service worker
except for this get route here where we see a file size because there, we do reach out to the web
and now we also see that in application, if I go offline,
this still works.
We also get our cards still because we have the cache then network strategy,
so it works offline if no network is available but it prefers the network
if it does have one. That's the finished strategy enhanced with, I call it routing,
so parsing the request URL to load different strategies for different requests. A little bit
of an advanced concept but super useful because with that, you have full control over how you load which
resource.